This project aimed at accurately predict students’ performances in a class based on different factors (sex, age, school, address, mother’s and father education etc.) as presented from student data provided. This project will help the advising team of the Portuguese system educational for Gabriel Pereria (GP) and Mousinho da Silveria (MS) schools to timely identify students who are in need of additional educational supports to improve on their final grades.

The student information dataset was downloaded UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository. The data contains student performance data from two Portuguese school and data was through reports and questionnaires. The dataset was clean and preprocessed through the following steps/procedures:
Use of Sklearn SimpleImputer class to handle cases of missing values from the student info dataset.
Use of Sklearn StandardScaler function method for standardizing features with a view to remove the mean and scale to unit variance.
Use of OneHotEndcoder to encode categorical features in the student info dataset
Use of OrdinalEncoder to encoder categoric features where order is given priority.
Use of BaseEstimator and TransformerMixin for feature engineering i.e., creating new feature – sum_absences_Gs
Use of cross validation function to make better evaluations of the different models

The machine learning algorithm, Random Forest gave the best predictions based on the values of the RMSEs (2.109848 for without G1 & G2 and 1.709702 for with G1 & G2) obtained for cases with and without first and second term grades as parts of predicting features. Since, the case with first and second terms grade included as part of predicting features gave the least RMSE (1.709702), thus it was selected and used on the test model. Its performance on the test model was evaluated. The chosen model, Random Forest achieved RMSE value of 1.3593 on the test set, which is considered a good model since we don’t have any baseline model to make comparison with. Thus, its predictions is considered good and can be used by advising team to proactively give appropriate extra supports to students with lower final grade (based on model predictions) in subsequent term or school year/session. Based on the grading system by Portuguese educational system, any predicted values less than 10 is considered a fail. Therefore, any student with final grade, G3 predictions of less than 10 will need extra support or interventions.
